welcome and thanks for joining us I'm
excited to be here we have lots of
exciting content plan for the session
and some pretty cool announcements to
make as well my name is Edward name and
I lead the product management team for
EFS I'm joined on stage with Darryl
Osborn who's solutions architect a
storage solutions architect at AWS we
have so much content that we likely will
take the entire 60 minutes to to go
through it so in terms of QA feel free
at the end to come up and we'll Darryl
and I will stick around for 15 20 30
minutes who are low however long it
takes to answer your questions one on
one let me start with a quick run
through of what you can expect during
the session I'm going to start by
talking about EFS give an overview of
EFS and talk about why and when you
would use EFS i'm going to review some
key technical and security concepts some
of that material will be refresher
content for some of you but i want to
make sure we all have the same baseline
of knowledge before we get into some of
the deeper sections then i'm going to
spend time talking about EFS performance
and a number of aspects of our overall
performance model and how you can
leverage that performance model to
really optimize how your applications
and workloads run with ef-s then we're
going to do two hands on type of
activities Darrell's going to walk
through a real world example of how you
can move data as quickly as possible
into EFS and between EFS file systems
you in using parallelization and then
Darrell is also going to talk about a
wordpress example he's going to go
through what it's like to deploy
wordpress on to EFS and some of the best
practices for that we're then going to
talk about EFS is economics so I'll talk
a bit about total cost of ownership and
how to think about that and then we have
some exciting feature plans and
announcements to make so let's get
started
and let me start by talking about awss
storage offerings its overall portfolio
of storage products and how EFS fits
into that set of offerings AWS offers
three main types of storage file object
and block and let me walk through each
of those in turn so starting from the
right block storage which is represented
by Amazon EBS and ec2 instance storage
with block storage data is presented to
an ec2 instance as a disk volume and
block storage provides that that disk
volume 2 single instances and provides
the lowest latency that you can get from
any of our storage products for
operations so EBS for example is really
popular for boot volumes and for
database workloads because of its low
latency and we have object storage so an
object is a piece of data like a
document or an image or video file
that's stored with some metadata in a
flat structure an object storage
provides that data to your applications
via and API over the Internet so with
our s3 service it's super simple to
build for example a web application that
delivers content to your users by making
basic API calls get calls to your bucket
of storage glacier also is object
storage and it's intended for archival
use cases so it's really intended for
data that's accessed infrequently and
you you're able to pay a lower price per
gigabyte for that data for storing it on
AWS and as of five months ago five
months ago yesterday actually with the
announcement of EFS as a generally
available service we now have file
storage and with file storage with ef-s
data is presented via a file system
interface and file system semantics to
ec2 instances
when it's attached to an ec2 instance
your EFS file system acts just like a
local file system would and with ef-s
you can attach your file system to one a
few tens hundreds thousands of instances
so that all of these instances have
access to the same set of data and
there's strong consistency across the
accesses for for operations across those
instances with ef-s we focused on
changing the game for file storage and
for storage in general and there are
three core pillars to our design of EFS
the first is that EFS is simple the
first is that if the second is that EFS
is elastic and the third is that EFS is
scalable and those three are on top of a
foundation of high availability and high
durability and let me talk about each of
these in turn so EFS is simple it's a
fully managed service which makes it
easy and simple to man it to administer
file systems at scale there's no file
layer or hardware to manage there's no
volumes lawns raid groups provisioning
to manage none of that stuff and with
ef-s you can create a file system in
seconds and that's probably hard to
believe for for some of you who have
built your own file storage on top of
AWS or outside of AWS but it's really
easy to get started and we'll talk a
little bit about that a little later EFS
provides seamless integration with
existing tools and applications it's it
supports NFS version for dot one which
is a widespread and open protocol it
provides standard file system access
semantics so you get what you would
expect from a file system the ability to
take out locks the ability to write data
to the middle of the file the ability to
append data to the end of a file
directory structures atomic renames
strongly after right consistency and it
offers simple pricing it's a simple
cents per gigabyte per month model that
doesn't that incorporates
all of the charges that you would you
would do it in car so there's no charges
for throughput there's no charges for
request pricing it's just a simple 30
cents per gigabyte per month having a
little trouble with the clicker here
okay EFS is elastic so file systems grow
and shrink automatically as you add and
remove files there's no need to
provision in fact there's no way to
provision storage capacity or
performance things just scale up and
scale down as you add data and remove
data and you pay only for the storage
space you use so you literally are
paying just for the bytes that you're
storing on EFS and EFS is scalable file
systems can grow to petabytes of
capacity and there's no need to
reprovision as your file system grows no
need to adjust performance settings no
need to really do anything for your file
system to grow it a petabyte scale it
just does it automatically as you add
data throughput skills automatically as
file systems grow so with every gigabyte
of data that you store you get a certain
amount of throughput that you're allowed
to drive to EFS so that means that as
your file systems grow the amount of
throughput that you can drive in order
to read data and write data grows with
the size of the file system provides
consistent low latencies lots of file
workloads are latency sensitive so it
was really critical for us to make sure
that we offered consistent Lowell
agencies and EFS supports thousands up
to thousands of concurrent NFS
connections so if you have applications
that span multiple ec2 instances they
can all have access to a common set of
data and EFS is designed to be highly
available and highly durable your data
is automatically spread across multiple
az's and it's available in multiple az's
so you can read your data and write your
data from any AZ within a region and
every aspect of the service beyond even
just the data is designed for high
availability so including the endpoints
that you create in your v pc which I'll
talk about in a sec
so where can you use the FS today we're
in four regions us West Oregon us East
Northern Virginia us east ohio and EU
ireland and there are many more regions
coming soon and a question i sometimes
get is should i use EFS or should i use
EBS and you know with EBS you can format
your your volume with a file system so
when would you use the fs versus EBS
well some some guidelines to think about
when you're trying to figure out does
EFS makes sense is the following so if
you have an ec2 application and it
requires a file system and either
requires multi attached so requires
access from more than one instance
requires multi AZ availability or
durability needs to scale 2 gigabytes
per second of throughput or if it
requires automatic scaling so as you add
data grows and as you take it out it
removes so if if you go through that and
you meet any of those you should really
consider EFS for your application and
we'll talk a little bit more later on
about the fs and abs and some of the
differences for you to think about
and you should you should understand
that operating your own file storage is
is complex and it's expensive and
there's really two ways that people
typically do that so one is you can
simply replicate EBS volumes so for
example let's say that you have a web
serving environment you have multiple
ec2 instances and on each instance
you're running an Apache web server and
you want each of those web servers to
have access to the content that the web
server needs to serve so you could go
and create an EBS volume catch it attach
a different volume to each instance and
synchronize your files across volumes
the problem with that is that there's a
lot of management overhead and doing
that you need to manage the sinking of
data you need to provision and manage
volumes and it's also expensive because
you're paying for at least one volume
for every web server that you have
another way to have your own sort of
file storage on the cloud that's
accessible to multiple instances is if
you use an NFS server setup your own NFS
server on an ec2 instance or you use a
shared file layer so some 30-some third
parties offer shared file layers that
you can install on an ec2 instance and
that are backed by EBS volumes so those
solutions unfortunately in many cases
are complex to set up complex to
maintain its not a fully managed service
you run into scale challenges think
about the case of a single NFS server
running on a single ec2 instance it's
running on a single box so there's only
so much scale that you can have
similarly there's only there's
challenges around high availability
again if you have a single box or even a
small set of boxes you you're
introducing some availability risks and
those solutions are costly and we'll
talk about cost and more detail later on
and customers are using EFS for a wide
variety of workloads and applications
today web serving content management are
super popular use cases for EFS so a lot
of customers that are doing database
backups of EBS volumes on to EFS
analytics workloads are really popular
so you'll have tens or hundreds of
instances that are doing analysis on a
common set of data media and
entertainment workflows like video
processing video transcoding container
storage home directories and really many
different types of workflow management
where you need to share some data or
some set of state across an application
that's running on multiple instances
okay so let's talk briefly about some
key technical and security concepts and
let me start clickers still acting up
let me start with a definition the
fundamental EFS resource is a file
system and that's where you store your
files and your directories and you can
create 125 file systems per account and
then uh let me just take care of one
thing
another definition is a mount target so
you access your file systems from a from
within a VPC from instances that our nav
pc and in order to do that you create
these endpoints which we call mount
targets in a cheese haz with in a VPC
for from which you want to access an EFS
filesystem and what this endpoint or
what this mount target does is it
provides an IP address and it provides a
DNS name that you use when you're
mounting your file system and mount
targets are designed to be highly
available and how do you access a file
system from an instance well you mount
it using a standard Linux mount command
and if you can make that out on the
screen here it's a there's the command
up there the dash T is the means that
you'll specify the type of mount and
that's really the only parameter you
really are sorry one of the two
parameters that you need to specify so
it's an NFS for mount and then an
optional parameter that you need to
specify is the NFS version number which
is for dot one and we highly recommend
for dot one we do support 40 but for
performance reasons for that one is what
we recommend then you provide the file
system dns name which is what the mount
target provides and you could replace
that with an IP address for the amount
target as well if you prefer and then
the dash o is for an optional parameter
which i mentioned the NFS version number
and then the user's target directory the
final parameter there and that's the
local directory that your EFS file
system will appear in once it's mounted
okay so how does it all fit together so
you have a region and within a region
you have a file system so file system is
it belongs in a region you have a VPC in
that region that's your v pc and within
each AZ you create these mount targets
in your v pc and the easy two instances
that are running in the AZ s in your
PC connect via those mount targets and
you should note that data can be
accessed from any AZ in the region
concurrently while maintaining full
consistency so if you're doing rights
and one AZ you're guaranteed at the
reeds in the and another AZ will have
the latest version of the data and there
are a number of security mechanisms
available to your EFS file system so
first at the network level you can
control net you can control network
traffic to and from your file systems by
using VPC security groups and using VPC
Network ackles and really what you're
doing is you're applying with the
security groups you're applying them to
the mount targets and so because the
mount target is where you're sending
your traffic to the file system you
control what traffic can reach your file
system by applying the the relevant
security groups to those mount argit's
you can control at the data access layer
file and directory access by using POSIX
permissions standard POSIX permissions
and then at the administrative level you
can control API access to file systems
using I am and EFS supports both action
level and resource level permissions and
then what does our API provide provides
basic management functionality for for
your file system so the building to
create a file system create and delete
mount targets tag a file system view
details on the file systems in your
account and those the API functions are
accessible through our UI through the
management console to the CLI and
through the SDK okay so let's talk about
performance EFS is designed for a wide
spectrum of of performance needs and if
you think about a typical way that
people think about performance and
across a spectrum on one side you have
applications and workloads that drive
high levels of throughput often from
many instances so a lot of parallel
all operations and in the name of the
game is as much aggregate throughput as
possible across a number of instances
and then on the other end of the
spectrum are applications where you're
doing a lot of serialized operations and
the latency of each individual operation
makes a big difference in terms of how
many operations per second are how much
throughput you can drive so very latency
sensitive applications and what you see
on the on the screen here in terms of
workloads are examples of what customers
are using AFS for I talked about a
couple of these before but on the
throughput intense side of the spectrum
things like genomics workloads big data
analytics scale out jobs on the other
side metadata intensive jobs and then
sort of in the middle are a lot of the
sort of general types of use cases that
you would use file for so web serve and
content management home directory etc
and in order to support that spectrum of
workloads and applications EFS offers
two different performance modes that you
can choose from so the first is called
general-purpose mode and that's the
default mode for a file system and what
it does is it offers the lowest latency
for your file operations now that the
trade-off for general-purpose mode is
that there's a limit in terms of the
number of operations per second you can
drive when you're in general purpose
mode and that limit is 7,000 operations
per second the other mode is max io mode
and it offers a virtually unlimited
ability to scale your throughput and I
ops so you don't have this 7,000
operations per second limit but the
trade-off is it does so with slightly
higher latency spur operation so in
terms of which workloads make sense for
which performance mode in general
general purpose mode is the best choice
for most workloads that's why we call it
general purpose and that's why it's the
default but if you need hi aggregate
levels of I ops or high aggregate levels
of throughput and typically that's if
you have a workload for
example where you'll have tens or more
instances accessing a file system and
driving lots of traffic to it then you
should consider max io mode and what we
generally recommend is when you're
testing EFS with your application and
trying to figure out sure to use general
purpose or max io mode you should start
off by creating a file system that's in
general purpose mode and testing it and
we provide a cloud watch metric that
shows how close you're getting to the
7000 operations per second limit but
that's tied to general purpose mode so
we recommend just testing it and looking
at the cloud watch metric to see and if
you're OK in terms of cloud watch metric
you should definitely stay in general
purpose mode in order to understand
DFS's performance model it's helpful for
me to provide a bit of context on EFSA's
architecture so EFS has a distributed
data storage design and what that means
is that file systems are distributed
across an unconstrained number of
servers and what that why that's good is
because it avoids the bottlenecks and
the constraints of traditional file
servers and it allows high levels of
aggregate operations per second an
aggregate throughput and also allows
that scaling to petabytes scale that I
talked about with ef-s as I mentioned
earlier data is also distributed across
availability zones and that's important
for durability and availability so when
you when you do a read operation on EFS
and you'll get the acknowledgement back
that the write operation has completed
you can be rest assured that actually
the data has been written across
multiple lazies so that happens before
you get the acknowledgement back
now this distributed architecture has
some performance implications so one is
that there's a small latency overhead
for each file operation and that's tied
to the fact that the data is spread out
and it spread across multiple
availability zones and it's strongly
consistent so when you get an
acknowledgement back you know the data
has travelled to the other availability
zones but it also enables scale out so
it allows you to get to these high
aggregate levels of performance and so
when you think about EFS versus EBS it's
helpful to think about a few different
things so the first is the per operation
latency so EFS does offer low consistent
Layton sees but because of the
distributed design I just talked about
if you're looking for the absolute
lowest possible Layton sees EBS has
lower latencies because it doesn't have
that distributed design in terms of
throughput scale EFS scales to multiple
gigabytes per second and Darryl will
talk about he'll give an example
actually of a couple gigabytes per
second than he drove when copying data
on AFS with EBS it's around a single
gigabyte per second in terms of
availability durability EFS data spread
across multiple az's EBS it's in a
single lazy access EBS single ec2
instance can access a volume with ef-s
you can have one to thousands of ec2
instances a kissing it concurrently and
so some of the use cases that are really
in the sweet spot for EFS are big data
and analytics some of the media
processing that I was talking about
content management home directories with
EBS really lady and latency sensitive
applications like databases make a lot
of sense for EBS and EBS also makes a
lot of sense for boot volumes
so tied to this per operation latency
that I've been talking about the overall
throughput that you can achieve when you
are doing a sequence of operations in
serial across EFS is is tied to the the
size of the operation that you're
driving so if you're doing a read or
write that's a that's a read or write of
a bigger piece of data that latency is
amortized over a large amount of data
and so in effect if you're doing these
operations in serial you're able to
drive higher amounts of throughput with
larger operation sizes and this graph
shows io size versus throughput to give
you a sense for and again this is
serialized operation to give you a sense
for what that what that looks like and
EFS is designed to process high volumes
of concurrent operations in an effective
way so one way to drive high levels of
throughput or high levels of I ops is to
do it via parallel operations that
you're throwing a TFS concurrently and
you can do that via multiple threads on
a single ec2 instance or if you want
even more parallelization you can do it
on multiple threads across multiple ec2
instances and this graph illustrates
that so in this graph we held the i/o
size constant it's actually we're
showing the creation of 4k files and
this is across ten instances and it
shows on the x-axis the number of
threads and on the y-axis the aggregate
I ops that that you're able to drive and
in this example you can see almost a
linear increase in the aggregate I ups
as you increase the number of threads
and daryl is going to give a little bit
of a walk through of an example of doing
some of this parallelization so you can
see how you could actually do that in
the real world and we provide cloud
watch metrics for a variety of views of
your file system performance
if you want to understand the operations
per second that you're driving if you
want to understand the volume of
throughput that you're driving over a
period of time we have cloud watch
metrics that provide that data to
metrics that I'll call out specifically
burst credit balance and permitted
throughput as I mentioned the amount of
throughput that you're entitled to on an
EFS file system is tied to the amount of
data that you're storing and essentially
the rate at which so we have this burst
credit model and if you have burst
credits available you're able to drive
throughput to your file system and the
rate at which you earn these bursts
credits is tied to the amount of storage
that you have in the file system and it
all equates to around 100 megabytes per
second of throughput that you can drive
for every terabyte of data stored so if
you have one terabyte it's 100 megabytes
per second if you have five terabytes
500 megabytes per second and there's
details in our documentation on this but
just wanted to give you a feel for what
that bursting model is like and these
two cloud watch metrics the first credit
balance permitted throughput give you
visibility into how you're doing from a
burst credit perspective and if you're
if you're okay or if you need to add
more data in order to get the level of
throughput that you want and then in
terms of kernel version and NFS mount
options these things actually really
matter so definitely use a Linux kernel
version for dot 0 or newer there's so
many performance enhancements that have
been added to the Linux kernel over time
so we highly recommend 40 or later and
mount via NFS for dot 1 there are a
bunch of performance enhancements tied
to for dot 1 versus 40 including
improved performance for multi-threaded
applications so that's something we
highly recommend the other parameters
that I'm showing the other optional
parameters you don't need to worry too
much about because those are the
defaults for most clients it doesn't
hurt to specify them anyway in case it's
not the default for whatever client
you're using but all of this stuff is in
our documentation as well but for the
most part default options will be what
you need
so a summary on the performance front
first of all test test test I can talk
about Layton sees all day I can talk
about throughput all day you're not
going to really know what that means for
your application until you test your
application that's because every
application has a different a different
set of access patterns so testing is
really the best way to understand what
does your application look like when
working with the fs use general purpose
mode for lowest latency mac co mode for
scale out and for most use cases general
purpose mode is the right mode use
kernel version 400 later and FS for dot
1 look for opportunities to to aggregate
your I osoyoos larger io sizes when
you're reading and writing data perform
asynchronous operations so one perimeter
I sort of glossed over on the previous
slide was the async mount option which
is a default mount option and what that
does is it allows the NFS client to
acknowledge your right even before it's
gone to the back end so that gives you
some enhanced performance for for rights
and also similarly for reads but you
know there's a there's some you need to
make sure that you're OK from a
consistency perspective in order to do
that because you'll be getting
acknowledgments to your application that
right is completed even though it hasn't
propagated necessarily to the back end
parallelization we'll talk about that in
a little bit and then we'll also talk
about using cashing in front of your
filesystem and with that I'll turn it
over to Darryl
Thanks that appreciate it so welcome
everyone glad to be here I'm from Texas
and in Texas we love things who else is
from Texas any Texans here all right in
Texas what do we like and things in
Texas are bigger and in Texas we like
things faster as well so what do we want
to do we want to move a lot of data big
data very fast so that's what I wanted
to do so this is what we did we had two
scenarios the first scenario was we
wanted to transfer a lot of media assets
so what we did we came up with a random
size file so they range from one gig to
100 gig plus we wanted to move them from
s3 any BS our next scenario is we had a
lot of smaller file so we randomly
generated files between 64 K and 256 and
again we wanted to transfer those from
s3 and EBS over to EFS so how should we
do this do we want to paralyze the copy
or do we want to do it in a serial
manner so if we take a look at serial
what does that look like one file after
another so you can only do so much
activity at once or should we do it in
parallel have a lot of different threads
have a lot of different instances doing
this copy at the same time so what did
we use we use new parallel some of you
may be familiar with this you could be
familiar with X arts as well so very
similar to that so really replace
is having to look through and do a
basically a copy command so what we did
is and it talks about it with with new
parallel it makes it very it's
consistent because the output is going
to be the same as if you did it in a
serialized manner all right so this is
what we did we created the destination
directory using parallel and we did the
copy as well so what does that look like
so if you're familiar with AWS we love
data we thrive for data so data tells us
so much information about how things are
going so we wanted to have data-driven
results we also wanted to hand this off
to someone else we wanted a repeatable
output results and of course we want to
make sure they were optimizing for cost
we want to do this as inexpensively as
we possibly could so we want to
determine the best instance type to help
us with reducing the cost but we wanted
to make sure that we had we could move a
lot of data very very fast so we looked
at these families these instance
families and we wanted to see which is
going to be the best we want to do a
quick test transfer of a thousand files
and we wanted to take a look at the
different threads we went from one
thread to a thousand twenty four threads
what would that look like how would that
impact this is copy this transfer so we
used a couple of tools to do this we use
data dog to monitor their performance on
on the instance we use sumo logic to do
the data visualization we also use
saltstack to do the automation the
orchestration so what happened
so with four instances we were able to
run 451 megabytes a second and it looks
something like this we had very
consistent throughput for all four
instances that's great but what does
that mean how can we improve that so
again if we go parallel we want to add
more instances if we went up to 50
instances we were able to get four point
two gigabytes a second gigabytes a
second now that's not the limit for EFS
that was a limit for our environment
based on the size of data we had stored
in our EFS file system so if you have
more data you can definitely see that
throughput increase now let's go to our
other use case or other example our
scenario so we had a lot of small files
ranging from 64k to 256k and we wanted
to see which instance type was going to
be best and how many threads we should
be using so all the different colors you
see here those are all the different
instance types we ran this test against
and if you notice right there in about
200 threads it's sort of plateaued off
so now we know you know what 200 threads
is where we want to be for our use case
for our example our workload so we
wanted to find the best instance type at
the least cost so that Kate that brought
us to the see three large instance type
and we were able to push through five
thousand little over five thousand files
per minute when we did this at 200
threads alright so now we have the
optimal instant size we have the optimal
number of threads so now what we want to
do is we want to we want to go parallel
we want to increase the number of
instances
so we decided let's go ahead and try out
300 oh and also we want to optimize for
cost so what did we use spot market so
what does that look like cost-wise this
cost to do this test less than its
around less than five dollars to run
this test these instances were running
at 4.5 cents per hour so we were able to
do this test very efficiently with 300
instances this see three large instance
we were able to copy 1.6 million files a
minute so that's a lot that is parallel
ISM with the optimal instance type with
the number of threats and the number of
the correct number of ec2 instances for
our workload and you can see it very
consistent for all of those all of those
ec2 instances so in summary what did we
learn from this very large files and get
a lot of throughput here we were limited
at 4.2 just because of the size of our
file system but definitely that that can
increase if you have a larger file
system and with small files again you
want to go parallel increase the number
of threats they want to increase the
number of instances then you can also
start pushing depending on your workload
your use case you can you can see
performance similar to this so in
summary we want to paralyze everything
paralyzed threads paralyzed instances as
ed mentioned you want to test test test
test your application out test it again
and test it again make sure it's working
the way that you wanted to want to
capture and analyze the state as well
you want to see how are you performing
when you're running your workload
against the fs and again to do this test
it cost us less than five dollars
alright so that sort of showed you a
little of how we recommend to run a sort
of a parallel workload with threads and
instance accounts now I want to talk a
little bit about a good use case so ed
mentioned a number of different use
cases that EFS is really great at
serving and one of those a sort of
combination is content management as
well as web survey so you're all
familiar with what this is you know it's
basically web-based applications serving
out content this could be wiki's this
could be blogs you know just web
applications so one that is very popular
that you may be familiar with is it is
WordPress it's a wordpress as you may be
familiar with it is a free and open
source tool that many people who's
running wordpress today got a couple
WordPress users out there okay great
it's great software it really makes your
web page look great very easy to run
free and priceless is the quote from
from woodbridge so it's a it's a great
great product as I looked into this a
little bit more I was surprised at the
number of sites that actually run
WordPress so there's a study just done
recently that said that twenty-seven
percent of all the websites are running
wordpress that's amazing twenty-seven
percent of anything in this market is
huge so that's great there's also a
quote or a study done that it says it's
very easy so it's very very easy to run
very easy to maintain and again another
study from Forbes this is a little a
little while ago so it's probably a
little out of date but it also said that
you know they're 660 million websites
are running wordpress so we want to test
this out you know how would this great
web serving content management system
perform on EFS so WordPress is available
at really two different
flavors in a sense so if you want to run
a wordpress site you can go to a managed
provider so wordpress com is one press
net is another there's just two that
that I'm familiar with but there's going
to be there's hundreds out there that
will manage and basically provide the
WordPress environment for you if you
wanted to run your your your application
there the other way is to download the
software from wordpress.org and run it
yourself so that's what we're going to
do today so we want to do a comparison
between resources and components of
WordPress so how they sort of map so if
we take a look at this unstructured data
we want all that unstructured data in
components and we also want to structure
data under the components of WordPress
where is that going to go to where's
that can be stored in AWS so the
unstructured data is going to be an EFS
that's where we're going to store those
PHP files the themes the plugins those
are some of the challenges that a lot of
users administrators have is when they
start installing these plugins and
themes it's going to be installed on
maybe that that local instance and then
you got to do that multiple times as you
sort of expand your WordPress I'm fleet
so we want to store that in a file
system that is shared among a number of
ec2 instances and that structured data
we're going to put in RDS of course so
what does this look like so very quickly
this is the architecture that we're
going to be coming out with a reference
architecture with this and an updated
WordPress white paper that has all this
information in it so within your VPC
you're going to have a couple of a Z's
you're going to have those mount targets
that ed mentioned they're going to be it
connected back to your EFS file system
you're going to have RDS spun up you're
going to have an ec2 instance that ec2
instance is going to be able to connect
to the mount target as well as your RDS
environment but we want to do more than
just one instance so we want to have an
auto scaling group and we don't have
multiple instances in there in front of
that what we want we want to yell be
we want this to be connected to the
Internet we can put cloud front in front
of that we can put RDS or route 53 and
then our users will be able to connect
we can expand this a little further and
actually cash some of the the database
data that's structured data and we can
put elastic cash in front of RDS then
also help out what we can do is put
install opie cash on the web servers on
our WordPress servers to cash some of
those PHP files from EFS so what does
this look like let's go ahead and very
quickly take a look at this so there we
go
this is an example of a CloudFormation
template that's going to be included in
the reference architecture these are
just some of the configuration settings
of parameters that we have so we want to
identify the the file system named the
performance mode general purpose or mac
co all the NFS mount name then go into
the bpc configuration the wordpress
configuration ELB configuration Aurora
we're going to put this in an Aurora
cluster elastic ash configuration as
well so all of these parameters are
going to be in this CloudFormation
template okay so we're not going to run
that right now just because it's going
to take some time to to create the the
RDS Aurora cluster so we're just going
to go ahead and jump over to an
environment sorry already up and running
now I have this over any organ region so
what does this look like so if we take a
look at our load balancer so right now
we have one wordpress instance and when
we launched that confirmation template
what it did it actually mounted that
file system as well installed all the
application all the applications that we
need it so we take a look at the
dashboard for wordpress we want to go
ahead and install a new theme so let's
go ahead and do that
I like this theme so we'll go ahead and
use that so this is going to be
downloading it's going to be downloaded
and installed on our file systems this
mounted to this this one single instance
that's a serving up all of our wordpress
content now that's installed we're going
to go ahead and activate it now what we
can do is take a look at what that looks
like so very simple very basic WordPress
site sort of out of the box well we also
want to want to install some plugins as
well so we want to add a new plugin and
we want to add the opie cash dashboard
so going very easy to do the
installation again is it going to be
installed it's going to be stored in our
wp-content folder which is sitting on
our EFS file system let's go ahead and
activate that we also want to activate
our other plugin or w3 total cache
buggin as well
so now that that is working what we want
to do is we want to make one small
change and this is something you
probably wouldn't do on your sub you
notice here if we we don't know exactly
what instance is running a we only have
one instance so we know it's it's
running on that one but if we expand our
auto scaling group we're not going to
know what what instance that is so
quickly i'm going to go ahead and just
copy a header file that i've already
made some some changes to and actually
first we need to go ahead and connect to
that that ec2 instance
if we grab this instance we'll go ahead
and connect to it grab our connection
string
now let's go ahead and copy that new
header file over so now what do we have
we do a refresh on this now we're going
to see the instance ID that's good so
now that we know that it's running there
but we want to do something else as well
so let's go ahead let's add a picture we
want to make you know want to customize
this just a little bit so let's go ahead
and select a file will upload a new file
and my side is called cloud Viking so
we've got a little picture of a Viking
ship we'll go ahead and save that we
want to use logo and tagline save and
publish now as we refresh this we're in
a ver a little picture which is great so
now let's say that we have an event and
not a scaling event that we needed to
expand our auto scaling group and have
launched a number of other instances so
if we go into our auto scaling group for
this environment
will change the desired number of
instances to say four go ahead and save
that change so now in the background is
going to automatically launch these
instances well a part of this the launch
config for our auto scaling group has
all the information and needs to
download all the files in needed 24 for
our environment it's able to
automatically mount the EFS filesystem
and it's going to be automatically
joined to our load balancer so if we
quickly switch back to our environment
one thing we could also do after we've
done all this is we could install our
memcache d client on our ec2 instances
we could configure opie cash a little
bit more and say you know what we're
going to going to maybe attach another
EBS volume and actually have Opie cash
store those files cash those files on
this other EBS volume if you wanted to
we could also use cloud front to cash
some of that information and use that as
our CDN then we could also use route 53
and put in a custom domain name so this
would look like any you know typical
WordPress application but in the
background you have an basically an
infinite number of ec2 instances that
you could scale to infinite amount of
storage and ef-s and on the database
side you've got an Aurora cluster but in
front of that you have an elastic cash
caching mechanism to cash all those
database calls and again both of those
environments can grow if we need to so
now if we quickly hop over to see where
we're at hopefully all of those
instances have have joined it looks like
successful now if we hop back and we do
change thanks now if we hop back and we
take a look at this take a look at the
instance ID and as we scroll through
this we should see the instance ID
change so now all of these instance IDs
these new instances have been added to
our load balancer and it's serving out
all of this data again very easy to
deploy we have this in a CloudFormation
template it's going to be available as a
reference architecture and we're going
to be updating the the white paper as
well
alright thank you Darrell alright so
let's briefly talk about economics with
DFS as I mentioned earlier with ef-s you
pay only for the storage space to use
there's no minimum commitments no
upfront fees you don't pay to provision
storage there's no throughput charges
requests charges none of that it's a
simple flat gigabyte per month charge of
thirty cents in our US regions so how do
you put that thirty cents per gigabyte
per month into context well one way to
do that is to think about what it would
cost to have a shared file system that
you run on your own on AWS and a common
way to do that would be a third party a
file system layer that you run on ec2
instances and that's backed by EBS
volumes and so in that type of setup you
would have if you're doing this across
multiple lazies so that you get the
multi AZ characteristics of EFS you
would have one instance in each AZ
that's running this shared file layer
and you would have two sets of EBS
volumes one set in each AZ that actually
stores the data and you would have inter
easy traffic between the EBS volumes in
order to replicate the data across a Z's
so how much would that cost well let's
say that you need to store around 500
gigabytes of data and you want multi AZ
because you require high availability
high durability so using that shared
file layer on top of EBS you'd probably
provision around six hundred gigabytes
worth of EBS volumes that's assuming
around eighty five percent utilization
you would never 100% utilize an EBS
volume and keep in mind you'd need to
replicate those volumes to the second AZ
so for storage you have two times the
600 gigabyte GB two volumes that adds up
to one hundred twenty dollars you have
the compute costs and these are the ec2
instances that just manage the file
system layer so these aren't your
instances that are accessing the file
system these are the
are just running that file system layer
and then you'd have the cross AZ or
inter AZ data transfer costs for all the
replication traffic you're doing and
that hundred twenty nine dollars per
month is if you were doing the typical
amount of traffic that we see customers
doing on EFS so all together you're
looking at a price of about six hundred
dollars per month to have this set up on
EFS with a 500 gigabyte file system
you're paying 150 dollars per month so
that's one lens through which to look at
the price and understand the economics
and now I'd like to talk about some
upcoming features and announce a feature
that's available today so first of all
we are releasing soon encryption of data
at rest and what that will do is it
provides an additional layer of
protection for your data and helps you
meet your organization's regulatory and
compliance requirements and our
encryption of data at rest will be fully
integrated with AWS kms or key
management service so you can manage the
keys that you're using to encrypt and
decrypt your file data and the
encryption and decryption is handled
transparently all you do is you specify
that for a file system you want it to be
encrypted you specify the key and EFS
manages everything and there's no extra
cost for enabling encryption so that
feature is coming in early 2017 also
coming soon is a simplifying feature for
using EFS today every mount target that
you create has a unique DNS name and
that DNS name is derived from the AZ in
which the mount target resides with the
new feature that will be coming soon you
will have a single DNS name for your
file system so single DNS name across
all of your mount targets and that DNS
name will automatically resolve to the
IP address of the mount target and the
AZ from which you are mounting your file
system so it's simplification where you
don't have to worry about which AZ or
instance
when you're mounting the file system and
to give you a feel for what that would
look like today the DNS names have the
first part is tied to what AZ are in
that will go away and now your your DNS
names for your file systems will just
have your files will just have the rest
of the DNS name without that easy so
your file system ID EFS region amazon
AWS and then before talking about the
next feature which is the one that we're
announcing today let me set the stage by
talking about how customers typically
think about bridging data between on
Prem and EFS and customers typically
think about four scenarios for working
with file data across there on Prem
environments and EFS so one is migration
where they want to move their entire
data set in their application onto AWS
and then run the application on ec2
instances using data in EFS so that's
migration another is bursting and with
bursting the pattern is that you would
move your data your data stored
permanently on Prem you move it on to
EFS in order to do some processing on
the data so you would spin up an ec2
cluster do some processing on the data
and then you would move it back onto on
prem to permanently reside there so
that's bursting the third is tiering
where you would store part of your data
set permanently on EFS and keep part of
it on Prem and you would access the
entire data set from applications
running on Prem and so you would ideally
keep your hotter data on Prem where it's
closer to the applications and the rest
of your data set on EFS and then finally
there's backup and disaster recovery
where you maintain a copy of your full
data set on EFS you periodically make
sure that that's up to date and then you
can use that either if you want to
restore backup or for disaster recovery
scenarios and what we're announcing
today is access to your EFS file systems
from on-premises servers over direct
connect connections
and for those of you who aren't familiar
with what Direct Connect is AWS direct
connect establishes a private network
connection between your on prime
environment and AWS bypassing the
Internet entirely one of the benefits of
doing that is that you get improved
Layton sees on this direct connect
connection compared to a connection over
the Internet and you get improved
throughput so with this feature that
we're announcing today you can mount
your file system from a non-prime server
using the same NFS for dot one mount
command you'd use from ec2 instances and
you're you're you'll be able to access
your data just like you would with from
ec2 in terms of these scenarios that I
talked about that this supports supports
the migration the bursting and the
backup and dr scenarios probably not a
great solution for most tiering
applications because you'll want your
hot or data to be on prem still for
those so this is really about moving
your data in and moving your data out
now keep in mind that the latency of
direct connect connections will impact
performance so due to laws of physics on
some direct connect connections you'll
actually see tens of milliseconds of
delays due to propagating the data over
long distances so if you're really
trying to drive high levels of
throughput high levels of i/o keep in
mind what we talked about earlier in
terms of power lies parallelizing the
data that you're copying over and this
actually shows a test that we ran that
shows the time it took to copy 26,000
files to EFS as a function of the number
of threads and as you can see as you
increase the number of threads the time
goes down and it has a nice asymptotic a
nature to the curve and that's because
as you increase the number of threads
every time you do you increase the
number of threads by two you're having
the time that it takes to copy the data
over so you would expect an asymptote
and this Direct Connect feature is
available today in three regions it's
available actually starting right now so
us West Oregon us east ohio and you
ireland and then it's coming soon to us
these northern virginia and that's it we
are out of time i do want to encourage
you if you're interested in learning
more about EFS and especially learning
about some example applications
customers using EFS there's a case study
with atlassian it's it happened earlier
today one session but there's another
one at twelve-thirty on friday there's
and they're talking about jira on top of
the FS there's a case study with spokeo
they're talking about web serving and
optimizing web serving with ef-s and
then there's a session with monsanto
where they're doing a bunch of really
cool analytics workloads on EFS so thank
you all Darryl and I will stand by for a
question